Note that this is a overly simplified explaination of how data is sent through a network. In the real world, the network works much more complicated. 

How data is sent through a network is like sending a letter to our friend overseas to invite him to our friend's wedding ceremony and asking him to let us know if he will be attending the ceremony. In sending the letter, we need to envelop the letter. We also need a stamp for the letter's delivery to prove that we have completed the delivery payment. Since our delivery is just a letter, one stamp will be enough. In delivering the letter, we need to provide our address and the receiver's address, which is normally specified in the letter. In writing the content, since our friend here and us know how to read in English, we can just communicate in English.

Since the letter's destination is in another country, our local city post station will send the letter to their HQ to be sent overseas as the letter would need to travel to another country through airmail. Once the letter reaches the other country, let us say Australia, the letter will then be sent to the appropriate post station from the post station's headquarter. Once the letter reaches the address's local post station, the mail will be sent to the specified address. Once our friend receives his mail, he unpacks the letter from the envelope and reads our message's content.

He can then send back his reply with the information stated in the letter using a similar method. If he confirmed that he would love to attend the ceremony, we then send another invitation letter to our friend.

Now to break it all down into networking term. We, the sender, first prepare the data (letter content) that we want to send. Then we encapsulate the data with the necessary information of the packet's source and destination (letter). In this analogy, our house address would be the MAC address for our packet, which our city's code would be our IP address, which is similar to our friend's address information. At the same time, our and our friend's country's location would be the IP network address. 

After encapsulating the data (letter) with the headers (information regarding the sending), the data then becomes a packet to be sent. The data inside the packet will also be encoded into an encoding agreed between our machine first, which the destination machine can then use the same encoding to send a reply to us. Since the packet size is not big (< 1500 bytes), the data can be transferred using only one packet. The packet will then be sent to the next device, a switch (our local post station), which will then send the packet to our router (HQ) so that the router could send the packet out of the network. Once it reaches the other router (our friend's country's Post Station's HQ), the packet will then be sent to the switch connected to the device (local post station). Once the packet reached the destination, the destination device will then decapsulate the packet and process the data (message). Once the device has processed the data, it will then send a reply to this packet's source (since this packet used TCP protocol, which requires a reply from the destination device).
